# Notes

[Creating a Mesh - Vertices and Triangles](https://catlikecoding.com/unity/tutorials/procedural-meshes/creating-a-mesh/)

## What's new
- [Texture](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/AnatomyofaMesh.html) is a bit like an image printed on a stretchable sheet of rubber. For each mesh triangle, a triangular area of the texture image is defined and that texture triangle is stretched and "pinned" to fit the mesh triangle. To make this work, each vertex needs to store the coordinates of the image position that will be pinned to it. These coordinates are 2D and scaled to the 0..1 range (0 means the bottom/left of the image and 1 means the right/top). To avoid confusing these coordinates with the Cartesian coordinates of the 3D world, they are referred to as U and V rather than the more familiar X and Y, and so they are commonly called UV coordinates.
- [Tangents](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/Mesh-tangents.html) are mostly used in bump-mapped Shaders. A tangent is a unit-length vector that follows Mesh surface along horizontal (U) texture direction. Tangents in Unity are represented as Vector4, with x,y,z components defining the vector, and w used to flip the binormal if needed.
- [NativeArrayOptions](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/Unity.Collections.NativeArrayOptions.html) lets you control if memory should be cleared on allocation or left uninitialized. `UninitializedMemory` is better for performance. Use it if you are writing to the entire array right after creating it without reading any of the elements first.
- Unity Mathematics has conversions for `int > float3` just like in HLSL, but at least this isn't hidden as the source is provided
- Within each stream, [attributes](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/Rendering.VertexAttributeDescriptor.html) of a vertex are laid out one after another, in this order: VertexAttribute.Position, VertexAttribute.Normal, VertexAttribute.Tangent, VertexAttribute.Color, VertexAttribute.TexCoord0, ..., VertexAttribute.TexCoord7, VertexAttribute.BlendWeight, VertexAttribute.BlendIndices.
